# v4.0.0

## What's new?

- Web Messenger is now rendered in an iframe to minimize conflicts with the host page that may arise due to other Javascript libraries that are in use

- Web Messenger is now loaded asynchronously using a script loader to minimize initial page load impact

- Web Messenger now uses a new optimized initialization sequence. This new sequence alters the timing of key events such as creating a new user or establishing a websocket connection.

## What's changed?

### Usage
#### Including Web Messenger
Web Messenger now uses a script loader to reduce its initial footprint and to allow the global variable to be available as soon as possible. This change doesn't apply to projects using `npm` to include Web Messenger.

#### Initializing Web Messenger
Previously, an app token could be used to initialize Web Messenger. The app token is now deprecated. An app ID is now required at initialization time. You can retrieve this ID from the app settings page.

```js
// Before
// Without JWT --> Initialize with appToken
Smooch.init({ appToken: '<app-token>'});

// With JWT --> Initialize with JWT
Smooch.init({ userId: '<user-id>', jwt: '<jwt>'});

// After
// Without JWT --> Initialize with appId
Smooch.init({ appId: '<app-id>' });

// With JWT --> Initialize with appId and JWT
Smooch.init({ appId: '<app-id>', userId: '<user-id>', jwt: '<jwt>'});

```

### Rendering
Web Messenger is now run and rendered inside of an `iframe` in order to maximize compatibility with sites where it is used.

### CSS Customization
In order to maximize Javascript compatibility, Web Messenger is now isolated in an `iframe`. Unfortunately, one side effect of this new way of rendering it makes previous CSS customization unusable since they can't target the inside of the `iframe`. Color customization is still available through the settings on the Smooch Dashboard.

### Behaviour changes
As part of this major update, the behaviour of Web Messenger has slightly changed:

#### `init()`
Since Web Messenger is now loaded asynchronously using a script loader, only a subset of the public methods are available to use before `init()` is called. Those methods are `on`, `off`, `init`, and `destroy`. Once `init()` is successfully called, the library is considered fully initialized and all public methods are available to use.

#### `getConversation()`
A call to `getConversation()` would previously call the server to retrieve the conversation, returning a promise. With this update, `getConversation()` no longer returns a promise and instead returns the local copy of the conversation synchronously.

#### `render()`
This method no longer returns the HTML node where Web Messenger is mounted.

#### `getUserId()`
This method no longer exists, but has been replaced by `getUser()` which will return the entire user object. The ID is available at `user._id`.

#### `track()`
As the Whispers feature is being sunsetted, the `track()` method has been removed as it was only useful for that feature.

#### `getCore()`
As Web Messenger no longer relies on `smooch-core` to talk to the Smooch API, `getCore()` has been removed.

#### Email capture
Email capture capability has been deprecated in favor of channel linking and was completely removed from Web Messenger as part of this update. We will soon be delivering much improved e-mail linking support.

### Bower and AMD
As part of this update, Web Messenger will no longer be offering an AMD build and new versions won't be available on bower.
